# Plush Compiler Project

## Author
- **Name:** Inês Marques
- **Email:** fc62839@alunos.ciencias.ulisboa.pt

## Project Structure
- **URL:** https://git.alunos.di.fc.ul.pt/fc62839/plush-compiler
- The project is structured as follows:

plush-compiler/

-  **main.py:** Contains the main entry point of the program, including the definition of tokens and grammar for parsing.
-  **node.py:** Defines the data structures used to represent nodes in the AST.
-  **typechecker.py:** Contains the logic to check types in the AST and ensure that the code is semantically correct.
-  **interpretador.py:** Provides additional support for building the compiler by containing code for interpreting the AST generated by the parser. While it doesn't directly contribute to the compiler, it aids in the development process.
-  **compilador.py:** Contains the compiler logic that transforms the abstract syntax tree (AST) into LLVM code.
-  **Dockerfile:** File to set up the Docker environment, including dependency installation and development environment configuration.
-  **functions.c:** Contains auxiliary functions written in C used by the compiler.
-  **plush.sh:** Shell script to automate the compilation and execution process of the compiler.
-  **req.txt:** List of project dependencies/requirements.
-  **tests/:** Contains subdirectories with tests organized by type (valid, lexical errors, syntactic errors, semantic errors) and a README to describe the tests.

## How to Run the program

**1.** Make sure you have Docker installed on your machine.

**2.** Open a terminal and navigate to the plush-compiler project folder.

**3.** Build the Docker image by executing the following command:

    docker build -t plush-compiler .

**4.** Once the image building is complete, run the Docker container in interactive mode with the following command:

    docker run -it plush-compiler /bin/bash

**5.** Now you're inside the Docker container and can execute Plush Compiler commands. To compile a Plush file, use the following command:

    ./plush.sh --tree <path_to_file>

Replace <path_to_file> with the path to the Plush file you want to compile. For example, 'tests/0_valid/fibonacci.pl'
The --tree argument is optional and is used to print the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST).

**6.** After compiling the Plush file, execute it with the following command:

    ./<executable_name>

Replace <executable_name> with the name of the generated executable file. For example, './fibonacci'

With these steps, you should be able to run the Plush Compiler and test your Plush files.
